1.3)
	1) 
	1. Evaluation or scoring, including profiling and predicting, especially from “aspects concerning
		the data subject's performance at work, economic situation, health, personal preferences or
		interests, reliability or behavior, location or movements” (recitals 71 and 91). Examples of
		this could include a financial institution that screens its customers against a credit reference
		database or against an anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing (AML/CTF) or
		fraud database, or a biotechnology company offering genetic tests directly to consumers in
		order to assess and predict the disease/health risks, or a company building behavioural or
		marketing profiles based on usage or navigation on its website.
		
		Avaliar ou atribuir uma pontuação a pessoas baseando-se na sua qualidade no trabalho, situação económica, saúde, preferências ou interesses pessoais, localização ou deslocações da mesma.

	2. Automated-decision making with legal or similar significant effect: processing that aims at
		taking decisions on data subjects producing “legal effects concerning the natural person” or
		which “similarly significantly affects the natural person” (Article 35(3)(a)). For example, the
		processing may lead to the exclusion or discrimination against individuals. Processing with
		little or no effect on individuals does not match this specific criterion. Further explanations on
		these notions will be provided in the upcoming WP29 Guidelines on Profiling.

		Decisões automatizadas que afetem indivíduos, tais como a discriminação dos mesmos
	
	3. Systematic monitoring: processing used to observe, monitor or control data subjects, including
		data collected through networks or “a systematic monitoring of a publicly accessible area”
		(Article 35(3)(c)) 15 . This type of monitoring is a criterion because the personal data may be
		collected in circumstances where data subjects may not be aware of who is collecting their
		data and how they will be used. Additionally, it may be impossible for individuals to avoid
		being subject to such processing in public (or publicly accessible) space(s).

		Monitorização sistemática de indivíduos através de angariação de informação através da rede ou monitorização feita no espaço público.
	
	4. Sensitive data or data of a highly personal nature: this includes special categories of personal
		data as defined in Article 9 (for example information about individuals’ political opinions), as
		well as personal data relating to criminal convictions or offences as defined in Article 10. An
		example would be a general hospital keeping patients’ medical records or a private
		investigator keeping offenders’ details. Beyond these provisions of the GDPR, some
		categories of data can be considered as increasing the possible risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals. These personal data are considered as sensitive (as this term is commonly
		understood) because they are linked to household and private activities (such as electronic
		communications whose confidentiality should be protected), or because they impact the
		exercise of a fundamental right (such as location data whose collection questions the freedom
		of movement) or because their violation clearly involves serious impacts in the data subject’s
		daily life (such as financial data that might be used for payment fraud). In this regard, whether
		the data has already been made publicly available by the data subject or by third parties may
		be relevant. The fact that personal data is publicly available may be considered as a factor in
		the assessment if the data was expected to be further used for certain purposes. This criterion
		may also include data such as personal documents, emails, diaries, notes from e-readers
		equipped with note-taking features, and very personal information contained in life-logging
		applications.

		Informação senśivel relativa a indivíduos tais como crenças, opiniões políticas ou registos (ex.: registo criminal).
	
	5. Data processed on a large scale: the GDPR does not define what constitutes large-scale,
		though recital 91 provides some guidance. In any event, the WP29 recommends that the
		following factors, in particular, be considered when determining whether the processing is
		carried out on a large scale 16 :
			a. the number of data subjects concerned, either as a specific number or as a proportion
			of the relevant population;
			b. the volume of data and/or the range of different data items being processed;
			c. the duration, or permanence, of the data processing activity;
			d. the geographical extent of the processing activity.
		
		Informação que é processada em grande escala.

	6. Matching or combining datasets, for example originating from two or more data processing
		operations performed for different purposes and/or by different data controllers in a way that
		would exceed the reasonable expectations of the data subject 17.

		Combinação de dados (ex.: bases de dados) de forma a extrapular informação que não foi auturizada pelos titulares dos dados.
	
	7. Data concerning vulnerable data subjects (recital 75): the processing of this type of data is a
		criterion because of the increased power imbalance between the data subjects and the data
		controller, meaning the individuals may be unable to easily consent to, or oppose, the
		processing of their data, or exercise their rights. Vulnerable data subjects may include children
		(they can be considered as not able to knowingly and thoughtfully oppose or consent to the
		processing of their data), employees , more vulnerable segments of the population requiring
		special protection (mentally ill persons, asylum seekers, or the elderly, patients, etc.), and in
		any case where an imbalance in the relationship between the position of the data subject and
		the controller can be identified.
	
		Informação relativa a titulares de dados que sejam considerados como vulneráveis, tais como crianças ou idosos.

	8. Innovative use or applying new technological or organisational solutions, like combining use
		of finger print and face recognition for improved physical access control, etc. The GDPR
		makes it clear (Article 35(1) and recitals 89 and 91) that the use of a new technology, defined
		in “accordance with the achieved state of technological knowledge” (recital 91), can trigger
		the need to carry out a DPIA. This is because the use of such technology can involve novel
		forms of data collection and usage, possibly with a high risk to individuals’ rights and
		freedoms. Indeed, the personal and social consequences of the deployment of a new
		technology may be unknown. A DPIA will help the data controller to understand and to treat
		such risks. For example, certain “Internet of Things” applications could have a significant
		impact on individuals’ daily lives and privacy; and therefore require a DPIA.

		O uso de nova tecnologia para obter informação.

	9. When the processing in itself “prevents data subjects from exercising a right or using a
		service or a contract” (Article 22 and recital 91). This includes processing operations that
		aims at allowing, modifying or refusing data subjects’ access to a service or entry into a
		contract. An example of this is where a bank screens its customers against a credit reference
		database in order to decide whether to offer them a loan.

		Quando o processamento de dados impede o titular desses mesmos dados de exercer os seus direitos, utilizar um serviço ou um contrato.

=> Projecto 
	O nosso projecto trata-se de uma loja online de suplementos alimentares (aka Pr0taIsLife). Esta loja armazena, por conveniência, os dados dos cartões de crédito usados pelos clientes de maneira a simplificar a próxima compra. O cliente para efetuar uma compra precisa de fornecer uma variedade de dados pessoais como morada e forma de entrega / horário preferido. Esta aplicação também fornece sugestões aos clientes tendo em consideração dados biométricos inseridos pelo utilizador (Altura, idade, peso, ...)

	1
	2
	4
	5

